.\" Copyright © 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.\"
.\" This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.\" There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.TH IFCONFIG "1" "2019-02-09" "GNU inetutils" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ifconfig
[\fIoption\fP...]
\fIname\fP
[\fIaddr\fP]
[\fBbroadcast\fP \fIbrdaddr\fP]
[\fBpointopoint\fP|\fBdstaddr\fP \fIdstaddr\fP]
[\fBnetmask\fP \fImask\fP]
[\fBether\fP|\fBhwaddr\fP|lladdr\fP \fImacaddr\fP]
[\fBmetric\fP \fIn\fP]
[\fBmtu\fP \fIn\fP]
[\fBtxqueuelen\fP \fIn\fP]
[\fBup\fP|\fBdown\fP]
[\fIflags\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Configure network interfaces.
.PP
Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional
for any corresponding short options.
.PP
Known flags are: \fBallmulti\fP, \fBarp\fP, \fBautomedia\fP, \fBbroadcast\fP,
\fBdebug\fP, \fBdynamic\fP, \fBmaster\fP, \fBmulticast\fP, \fBpointopoint\fP,
\fBportsel\fP, \fBpromisc\fP, \fBslave\fP, \fBtrailers\fP, \fBup\fP.
Prepending \fBno\fP to any of these flags will negate their effect.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display all available interfaces.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-address\fR=\fIaddr\fR
Set interface address to \fIaddr\fP.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-broadcast\fR=\fIaddr\fR
.TQ
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brdaddr\fR=\fIaddr\fR
Set broadcast address to \fIaddr\fP.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dstaddr\fR=\fIaddr\fR
.TQ
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-peer\fR=\fIaddr\fR
Set destination (peer) address to \fIaddr\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-up\fP
Activate the interface (default if address is given).
.TP
\fB\-\-down\fR
Shut the interface down.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-flags\fR=\fIflag\fP[,\fIflag\fP...]
Set interface flags.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interface\fR=\fIname\fR
Configure network interface \fIname\fP.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
List available or selected interfaces.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-netmask\fR=\fImask\fR
Set netmask to \fImask\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-metric\fR=\fIn\fR
Set metric of interface to \fIn\fP.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-mtu\fR=\fIn\fP
Set mtu of interface to \fIn\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fIformat\fR
Select output format; set to '\fBhelp\fP' for information.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-short\fP
Short output format.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Output information when configuring interface.
.TP
\fB\-?\fP, \fB\-\-help\fR
Give this help list.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Give a short usage message.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print program version.
.PP
Linux\-specific options:
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-txqlen\fR=\fIn\fR
Set transmit queue length to \fIn\fP.
