.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)logger.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd February 15, 2019
.Dt LOGGER 1 URM
.Os "GNU Network Utilities"
.Sh NAME
.Nm logger
.Nd make entries in the system log
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm logger
.Op Ar options ...
.Op Ar message ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm logger
provides a shell command interface to the
.Xr syslog 3
system log module.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "message"
.It Fl 4, -ipv4
Use IPv4 to connect to hosts.
.It Fl 6, -ipv6
Use IPv6 to connect to hosts.
.It Fl S , -source Ar ip
Set source IP address.
.It Fl h , -host Ar host
Log to
.Ar host
instead of to the default
.Pa /dev/log .
.It Fl u , -unix Ar sock
Log to UNIX socket
.Ar sock
instead of
.Pa /dev/log .
.It Fl i , -id Op Ar pid
Log the process id of the logger process with each line.
.It Fl s , -stderr
Log the message to standard error, as well as the system log.
.It Fl f , -file Ar file
Log the specified file.
.It Fl p , -priority Ar pri
Enter the message with the specified priority.
The priority may be specified numerically or as a "facility.level"
pair.
For example, "\-p local3.info" logs the message(s) as
.Ar info Ns rmational
level in the
.Ar local3
facility.
The default is "user.notice."
.It Fl t , -tag Ar tag
Mark every line in the log with the specified
.Ar tag  .
.It Fl -usage
Display a short usage message.
.It Fl ?, -help
Display a help list.
.It Fl V, -version
Display program version.
.It Ar message
Write the message to log; if not specified, and the
.Fl f
flag is not
provided, standard input is logged.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm logger
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
logger System rebooted

logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslogd 8 .
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm logger
command is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
