.\" Copyright © 2015-2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.\"
.\" This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.\" There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.Dd February 9, 2019
.Dt PING6 1 URM
.Os "GNU Network Utilities"
.Sh NAME
.Nm ping6
.Nd send ICMP6 ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ping6
.Op Ar option ...
.Ar host ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Send ICMP6 ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts and report the replies
received.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c , -count Ar total
Stop after sending the
.Ar total
number of packets.
.It Fl i , -interval Ar pause
Wait for
.Ar pause
seconds between sending each packet.
.It Fl w , -timeout Ar end
Stop after
.Ar end
seconds.
.It Fl n , -numeric
Do not resolve host addresses.
.It Fl -hoplimit Ar limit
.It Fl -ttl Ar limit
Set the maximum allowed number of hops to
.Ar limit .
.It Fl r , -ignore-routing
Send directly to a host on an attached network.
.It Fl T , -tos Ar class
Set the traffic
.Ar class .
.It Fl f , -flood
Flood ping (root only).
.It Fl l , -preload Ar initial
Send an
.Ar initial
number of packets as fast as possible before falling into normal mode
of behavior (root only).
.It Fl p , -pattern Ar pattern
Fill ICMP6 packets with the given
.Ar pattern
(hex).
.It Fl s , -size Ar octets
Send the number of data
.Ar octets
in each packet.
.It Fl v , -verbose
Verbose output.
.It Fl q , -quiet
Quiet output.
.It Fl d , -debug
Set the
.Dv SO_DEBUG
option.
.It Fl ? , -help
Give this help list.
.It Fl -usage
Give a short usage message.
.It Fl V , -version
Print program version.
.El
.Pp
Options marked with (root only) are available only to the superuser.
